# sketch-3d

A simple cross-platform 3D renderer. This is a learning experience project.

You can find the compiled demos (as of January 2015 the 22th) at this link: https://www.dropbox.com/sh/qhfo9fjf0jfxvjq/AADApvgPJ404oKv4PP980AQ7a?dl=0

To build the library, the samples and the test, you need the following CMake to create the appropriate files for compilation.

You need the following libraries:
* Assimp
* Boost (unit\_test\_framework)
* FreeImage
* OpenGL

And optionally:
* OIS

Also, on Linux you will have to install libx11.

On Linux, all the mentioned libraries should be the \*-dev one. For example, libassimp-dev or libx11-dev.

## Installation
### Mac OS X
CMake, Assimp, Boost and FreeImage can be installed using Homebrew.
```
brew install cmake
brew install assimp
brew install boost
brew install freeimage
```
OpenGL should be installed with the latest Mac OS update. You should also install the Xcode Command Line Tools. Then, install GLEW for OpenGL.
```
brew install glew
```
## Build
Then you need to follow these steps.
1. Create a folder where you will put the files generated by CMake (such as ./build)
2. Go in this folder and run the following command:
```
cmake ../. -G "Generator Name"
```
where the relative path "../." points to the root folder of the git repository and "Generator Name" is the name of a generator accepted by CMake which you will use to generate the binaries. For Mac OS X, use Unix Makefile or Xcode, for Linux, use Unix Makefile and for Windows, use Visual Studio 12 2013.

Currently the following samples are provided to showcase different 3d programming techniques:
* A burning piece of paper
* Cel shading
* Deffered shading
* Normal mapping
* Parallax mapping
* Shadow mapping using PCF
* Sponza Demo: A demo featuring Deferred rendering, normal mapping, GPU skinned meshes and shadows in the Sponza scene.
* Skeletal animation
* SSAO
* An ocean simulation based on Tessendorf paper
